frontend/packages/operator-lifecycle-manager/src/components/descriptors/README.md, before:

# Operator Descriptors

The Operator Lifecycle Manager allows adding descriptors to Custom Resource Definitions, which are used to describe different fields on the object and actions that can be peformed.

There are three types of descriptors:

Type   | Directory | Description
-------|-----------|------------
Spec   | `spec/`   | References fields in the `spec` block of an object
Status | `status/` | References fields in the `status` block of an object
Action | `action/` | References actions that can be performed on an object

The schema for a descriptor is the same, regardless of type:

```typescript
type Descriptor = {
  path: string; // Dot-delimited path of the field on the object that this descriptor
  displayName: string;
  description: string;
  'x-descriptors': SpecCapability[] | StatusCapability[]; // Used to determine which "capabilities" this descriptor has, and which React component to use
  value?: any; /* Optional field (type: object).
                  If present, the value of this spec is the same for all instances of the CRD
                  and can be found here instead of on the CR. */
}
```

The `x-descriptors` field can be thought of as "capabilities" (and is referenced in the code using this term). Capabilities are defined in `types.ts` provide a mapping between descriptors and different UI components (implemented as React components) using [URN format](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uniform_Resource_Identifier).

The `value` field is an optional field. If present, the value of this spec is the same for all instances of the CRD and can be found here instead of on the CR. This should not be used to apply a default value to a given custom resource for consumption by the console.

You can assign the default value of the field on CRD in OpenAPI v3 validation schema (see [Defaulting](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-kubernetes-api/custom-resources/custom-resource-definitions/#defaulting) feature in Kubernetes 1.17). Alternatively, you can specify the value of a field in [CRD Templates](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-lifecycle-manager/blob/master/doc/design/building-your-csv.md#crd-templates) in the `ClusterServiceVersion` to set (or override) the default value on the CRD.


## Example

From the `ClusterServiceVersion` for [etcd-operator](https://github.com/operator-framework/community-operators/blob/master/community-operators/etcd/0.9.4/etcdoperator.v0.9.4.clusterserviceversion.yaml#L30-L81):

```yaml
- name: etcdclusters.etcd.database.coreos.com
  version: v1beta2
  kind: EtcdCluster
  displayName: etcd Cluster
  description: Represents a cluster of etcd nodes.
  resources:
    - kind: Service
      version: v1
    - kind: Pod
      version: v1
  specDescriptors:
    - description: The desired number of member Pods for the etcd cluster.
      displayName: Size
      path: size
      x-descriptors:
        - 'urn:alm:descriptor:com.tectonic.ui:podCount'
    - description: Limits describes the minimum/maximum amount of compute resources required/allowed
      displayName: Resource Requirements
      path: pod.resources
      x-descriptors:
        - 'urn:alm:descriptor:com.tectonic.ui:resourceRequirements'
  statusDescriptors:
    - description: The status of each of the member Pods for the etcd cluster.
      displayName: Member Status
      path: members
      x-descriptors:
        - 'urn:alm:descriptor:com.tectonic.ui:podStatuses'
```

Which yields this UI:

![screenshot_20180821_163304](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/11700385/44427562-eb1fb500-a55f-11e8-83e5-98e7008dabdb.png)

## OLM Descriptor Reference
Checkout the [reference](reference/reference.md) of different specDescriptors and statusDescriptors available with sample code snippets and screenshots.


## Create Forms

TODO(alecmerdler): Docs for descriptor-powered forms

## Contributing

To add a new React component associated with a spec/status descriptor, make a pull request against this repo that satisfies the following requirements:

1. Make a React component that accepts props of type `DescriptorProps` and renders the spec/status value.
  - Place component in its own module in either the `spec`, `status`, or `action` directory
  - Ensure that **empty values** and **errors** are properly handled
2. Add a new "capability" URN to the `SpecCapability`/`StatusCapability` enum in `types.ts`
3. Update the `capabilityComponents` map with the capability/component key-value pair.

### Testing

All new descriptor components must have both unit and end-to-end tests. Frameworks and idiomatic examples of both exist in the codebase already and should be followed.

#### Unit Tests

Located at `frontend/__tests__/components/operator-lifecycle-manager/descriptors`.
Add a corresponding unit test file (named `<module>.spec.tsx`) that imports your component and provides sufficient coverage.

```shell
$ yarn run test
```

#### E2E Tests

Located at `frontend/integration-tests/tests/olm`.
To sufficiently test your component, modify `descriptors.scenario.ts` and add a new case to `defaultValueFor` to provide a default value for your descriptor.

Run the OLM end-to-end tests against a cluster with OLM installed:

```shell
$ yarn run test-suite --suite olmFull
```

Commit message:

Update REAME and x-descriptors guide

frontend/packages/operator-lifecycle-manager/src/components/descriptors/README.md, after:

# Operator Descriptors

The Operator Lifecycle Manager allows adding descriptors to Custom Resource Definitions, which are used to describe different fields on the object and actions that can be peformed.

There are three types of descriptors:

Type   | Directory | Description
-------|-----------|------------
Spec   | `spec/`   | References fields in the `spec` block of an object
Status | `status/` | References fields in the `status` block of an object
Action | `action/` | References actions that can be performed on an object

The schema for a descriptor is the same, regardless of type:

```typescript
type Descriptor = {
  path: string; // Dot-delimited path of the field on the object that this descriptor
  displayName: string;
  description: string;
  'x-descriptors': SpecCapability[] | StatusCapability[]; // Used to determine which "capabilities" this descriptor has, and which React component to use
  value?: any; /* Optional field (type: object).
                  If present, the value of this spec is the same for all instances of the CRD
                  and can be found here instead of on the CR. */
}
```

The `x-descriptors` field can be thought of as "capabilities" (and is referenced in the code using this term). Capabilities are defined in `types.ts` provide a mapping between descriptors and different UI components (implemented as React components) using [URN format](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uniform_Resource_Identifier).

The `value` field is an optional field. If present, the value of this spec is the same for all instances of the CRD and can be found here instead of on the CR. This should not be used to apply a default value to a given custom resource for consumption by the console.

You can assign the default value of the field on CRD in OpenAPI v3 validation schema (see [Defaulting](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-kubernetes-api/custom-resources/custom-resource-definitions/#defaulting) for CRD in `apiextensions.k8s.io/v1`). Alternatively, you can specify the value of a field in [CRD Templates](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-lifecycle-manager/blob/master/doc/design/building-your-csv.md#crd-templates) in the `ClusterServiceVersion` to set (or override) the default value on the CRD.


## Example

From the `ClusterServiceVersion` for [etcd-operator](https://github.com/operator-framework/community-operators/blob/master/community-operators/etcd/0.9.4/etcdoperator.v0.9.4.clusterserviceversion.yaml#L30-L81):

```yaml
- name: etcdclusters.etcd.database.coreos.com
  version: v1beta2
  kind: EtcdCluster
  displayName: etcd Cluster
  description: Represents a cluster of etcd nodes.
  resources:
    - kind: Service
      version: v1
    - kind: Pod
      version: v1
  specDescriptors:
    - description: The desired number of member Pods for the etcd cluster.
      displayName: Size
      path: size
      x-descriptors:
        - 'urn:alm:descriptor:com.tectonic.ui:podCount'
    - description: Limits describes the minimum/maximum amount of compute resources required/allowed
      displayName: Resource Requirements
      path: pod.resources
      x-descriptors:
        - 'urn:alm:descriptor:com.tectonic.ui:resourceRequirements'
  statusDescriptors:
    - description: The status of each of the member Pods for the etcd cluster.
      displayName: Member Status
      path: members
      x-descriptors:
        - 'urn:alm:descriptor:com.tectonic.ui:podStatuses'
```

Which yields this UI:

![screenshot_20180821_163304](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/11700385/44427562-eb1fb500-a55f-11e8-83e5-98e7008dabdb.png)


## Create Operand Form
In Kubernetes 1.8, CRDs gained the ability to define an optional [OpenAPI v3 based validation schema](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/master/versions/3.0.0.md#schemaObject). This is important for data consistency, security, and can also be used to auto-generate forms for creating CRD instances (or "Operands").

### Auto-generated Form
With a [structural schema](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-kubernetes-api/custom-resources/custom-resource-definitions/#specifying-a-structural-schema) (mandatory for CRD in `apiextensions.k8s.io/v1`), OpenShift Console can automatically generate creation forms for operands. Schema properties are mapped to appropriate form field UI components using [react-jsonschema-form](https://rjsf-team.github.io/react-jsonschema-form/). These mappings are primarily based on schema types (e.g. `boolean`, `text`, `integer`, `string`, `string` with `enum`, `object`, and `array`).

### Customized Creation Form with specDescriptors
The auto-generated creation form is already powerful, but you may want to customize how the form is rendered. For example, you may want a more user-friendly `displayName`, a more concise `description`, to change [form field ordering](#ordering-of-form-fields), or to [exclude some non-user facing fields](reference/reference.md#21-hidden). This is where "specDescriptors" come in.

Check out the `x-descriptors` [reference guide](reference/reference.md) which provides more detailed descriptions and examples of how to use them in specDescriptors and statusDescriptors.

### Ordering of Form Fields
The ordering of form fields depends on whether a field has a specDescriptor, is "required" (a `required:` property in the schema), "optional", or "advanced" (assigned with an [advanced](reference/reference.md#18-advanced) specDecriptor). In general, fields with specDescriptors will be sorted higher than those without and required fields will be sorted higher than optional fields. The full set of sorting rules are as follows:
1. "required" fields with specDescriptors other than advanced
2. "required" fields without specDescriptors
3. "optional" fields with specDescriptors other than advanced
4. "optional" fields without specDescriptors
5. Fields with advanced specDescriptors wrapped in the 'Advanced Configuration' group

## Contributing

To add a new React component associated with a spec/status descriptor, make a pull request against this repo that satisfies the following requirements:

1. Make a React component that accepts props of type `DescriptorProps` and renders the spec/status value.
  - Place component in its own module in either the `spec`, `status`, or `action` directory
  - Ensure that **empty values** and **errors** are properly handled
2. Add a new "capability" URN to the `SpecCapability`/`StatusCapability` enum in `types.ts`
3. Update the `capabilityComponents` map with the capability/component key-value pair.

### Testing

All new descriptor components must have both unit and end-to-end tests. Frameworks and idiomatic examples of both exist in the codebase already and should be followed.

#### Unit Tests

Located at `frontend/__tests__/components/operator-lifecycle-manager/descriptors`.
Add a corresponding unit test file (named `<module>.spec.tsx`) that imports your component and provides sufficient coverage.

```shell
$ yarn run test
```

#### E2E Tests

Located at `frontend/integration-tests/tests/olm`.
To sufficiently test your component, modify `descriptors.scenario.ts` and add a new case to `defaultValueFor` to provide a default value for your descriptor.

Run the OLM end-to-end tests against a cluster with OLM installed:

```shell
$ yarn run test-suite --suite olmFull
```
