frontend/packages/ceph-storage-plugin/README.md, before:

# OCS UI Features

The OCS UI requires some annotations in the OCS Operator CSV to perform various actions.

Following table maps the annotation to its use case and accepted values:
|Annotation Name|Purpose|Accepted Values |
|---------------------------------------|---------------------------|--------|
| `features.ocs.openshift.io/enabled`| Activate UI Features | "external", "snapshot" |
| `external.features.ocs.openshift.io/validation`| Mininum required keys to be supplied by the admin to connect to an external cluster | Array of Keys that need to be validated in UI |
||||

## Enabling Features in UI

UI features are activated based on the values in `features.ocs.openshift.io/enabled` annotation. The following table maps a feature and the respective annotation required to activate it.
| Feature |Feature guard|
|------------------------------|------------|
| External Cluster Installation| `external` |
| Volume Snapshots| `snapshot`

#### Example

       "features.ocs.openshift.io/enabled": `["external"]`

## JSON validation (Independent Mode)

This is used to perform validation of the JSON file uploaded by the user during Independent mode installation. The values in `external.ocs.openshift.io/validation` annotation needs to be a stringified JSON. The JSON object should have the following keys and values:
| Key | Accepted Values | Validation Performed |
|------|-----------|-------------|
| `secrets` | Array of String| JSON should contain all the `secrets` defined in the array. The `data.userKey` /`data.adminKey` field should be Base64 encoded and non-empty.
|`configMaps`| Array of String| JSON should contain all the `configMaps` defined in the array. `data` field should be non-empty.
| `storageClasses`| Array of String| JSON should contain all the `storageClasses` defined in the array. `data` field should be non-empty.

#### Example (CSV Annotataton)

    external.features.ocs.openshift.io/validation: '{"secrets":["rook-ceph-operator-creds",

    "rook-csi-rbd-node", "rook-csi-rbd-provisioner", "rook-csi-cephfs-node", rook-csi-cephfs-provisioner"],

    "configMaps": ["rook-ceph-mon-endpoints", "rook-ceph-mon"], "storageClasses":

    ["rook-ceph-retain-bucket"]}'

#### Example (User Uploaded JSON)

Excerpt of the JSON uploaded by the user.

    [
    	{
    		"kind": "ConfigMap",
    		"data": {
    			"maxMonId": "0",
    			"data": "a=10.106.31.93:6789",
    			"mapping": {}
    		},
    		"name": "rook-ceph-mon-endpoints"
    	},
    	{
    		"kind": "Secret",
    		"data": {
    			"userKey": "AQBI8bteZd52HxAAAgHS3TJGEfgZurN+gVvDNQ==",
    			"userID": "client.aaaa"
    		},
    		"name": "rook-ceph-operator-creds"
    	},
    	{
    		"kind": "Secret",
    		"data": {
    			"adminID": "csi-cephfs-provisioner",
    			"adminKey": "AQBV66pefnqmERAAKYhoO2XK5mUIGKSN4J/URw=="
    		},
    		"name": "rook-csi-cephfs-provisioner"
    	},
    	{
    		"kind": "StorageClass",
    		"data": {
    			"pool": "device_health_metrics"
    		},
    		"name": "ceph-rbd"
    	},
    ]

Commit message:

Add OCS Attached Devices flag to ceph plugin
- The flag name is OCS_ATTACHED_DEVICES
- Its enabled on the annotation: cluster.ocs.openshift.io/local-devices
- The flag will allow to detect ocs installation on baremetal
- The flag will be consumed for disk replacement kebab action in 4.6
- Updates readme
- https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHSTOR-1196

Signed-off-by: Afreen Rahman <afrahman@redhat.com>

frontend/packages/ceph-storage-plugin/README.md, after:

# OCS UI Features

The OCS UI requires some annotations in the OCS Operator CSV and Storage Cluster CR to perform various actions.

Following table maps the annotation to its use case and accepted values:
|Annotation Name|Purpose|Accepted Values |CR/CSV
|---------------------------------------|---------------------------|--------|----------------|
| `features.ocs.openshift.io/enabled`| Activates Snapshot and External Mode Features | "external", "snapshot" | Operator CSV
| `cluster.ocs.openshift.io/local-devices`| Activates disk replacement and ocs status column in disk inventory | "true" | Storage Cluster CR
| `external.features.ocs.openshift.io/validation`| Mininum required keys to be supplied by the admin to connect to an external cluster | Array of Keys that need to be validated in UI | Operator CSV
||||

## Enabling Features in UI

UI features are activated based on the annotations. The following table maps a feature and the respective annotation key-value pair required to activate it.
| Feature |Annotation Value| Annotation Key
|------------------------------|--------------------------|---------|
| External Cluster Installation|`features.ocs.openshift.io/enabled` | `external` |
| Volume Snapshots|`features.ocs.openshift.io/enabled` | `snapshot`|
| Disk Replacement Action| `cluster.ocs.openshift.io/local-devices` | `true`|
| Disk Inventory OCS Status Column | `cluster.ocs.openshift.io/local-devices` | `true`|

#### Example

       "features.ocs.openshift.io/enabled": `["external"]`

## JSON validation (Independent Mode)

This is used to perform validation of the JSON file uploaded by the user during Independent mode installation. The values in `external.ocs.openshift.io/validation` annotation needs to be a stringified JSON. The JSON object should have the following keys and values:
| Key | Accepted Values | Validation Performed |
|------|-----------|-------------|
| `secrets` | Array of String| JSON should contain all the `secrets` defined in the array. The `data.userKey` /`data.adminKey` field should be Base64 encoded and non-empty.
|`configMaps`| Array of String| JSON should contain all the `configMaps` defined in the array. `data` field should be non-empty.
| `storageClasses`| Array of String| JSON should contain all the `storageClasses` defined in the array. `data` field should be non-empty.

#### Example (CSV Annotataton)

    external.features.ocs.openshift.io/validation: '{"secrets":["rook-ceph-operator-creds",

    "rook-csi-rbd-node", "rook-csi-rbd-provisioner", "rook-csi-cephfs-node", rook-csi-cephfs-provisioner"],

    "configMaps": ["rook-ceph-mon-endpoints", "rook-ceph-mon"], "storageClasses":

    ["rook-ceph-retain-bucket"]}'

#### Example (User Uploaded JSON)

Excerpt of the JSON uploaded by the user.

    [
    	{
    		"kind": "ConfigMap",
    		"data": {
    			"maxMonId": "0",
    			"data": "a=10.106.31.93:6789",
    			"mapping": {}
    		},
    		"name": "rook-ceph-mon-endpoints"
    	},
    	{
    		"kind": "Secret",
    		"data": {
    			"userKey": "AQBI8bteZd52HxAAAgHS3TJGEfgZurN+gVvDNQ==",
    			"userID": "client.aaaa"
    		},
    		"name": "rook-ceph-operator-creds"
    	},
    	{
    		"kind": "Secret",
    		"data": {
    			"adminID": "csi-cephfs-provisioner",
    			"adminKey": "AQBV66pefnqmERAAKYhoO2XK5mUIGKSN4J/URw=="
    		},
    		"name": "rook-csi-cephfs-provisioner"
    	},
    	{
    		"kind": "StorageClass",
    		"data": {
    			"pool": "device_health_metrics"
    		},
    		"name": "ceph-rbd"
    	},
    ]
